# Meta-DBC
#### A New Look at Pedagogy
#### September 18, 2014

I've said it before and I will say it again and again: I believe wholeheartedly that the firmly ensconced system of education in the United States, particularly higher education, is an antiquated system that, although it has evolved some over the years, has not evolved at the same rate that society has. These differing rates of change have led to a disconnect between academia and the real world. Dev Bootcamp promises to bridge that gap and be a new, fresh, completely revolutionary form of education that is at the vanguard of pedagogy. With an emphasis on emotional intelligence and people skills, DBC's curriculum might have traditional thinkers raising their eyebrows. Indeed, learning how to code is only one piece of the puzzle of what it means to be a DBC student. As it should be. Having left academia disenchanted with the passive learning environment it created, I am hungry for the new, active, get-your-hands-dirty environment DBC will provide. It's been such a wonderful thing to realize that being a programmer takes a lot more emotional and interpersonal skills than it does raw analytical skills, and that all these skills *can* be cultivated; I'd always thought that coding was entirely analytical and that I'd have no chance because I've always been more of a people person.

Having gone through merely a week of the Phase 0 curriculum, I can say that I am left even more eager to become an integral part of this learning environment, that, as Shereef mentioned in his fireside chat, will be an act of co-creation. Yes, I will come to day one of Phase 1 with a healthy dose of nervousness, as it is a bold, completely novel, experimental experience. But I'll take risky and adventurous over safe and boring *any* day, and that's exactly why I'm here at DBC.